[Music]
to many one of the coolest things about
Game of Thrones is that the inhabitants
of the Dothraki sea have their own real
language and Dothraki came hot on the
heels of the real language that the Navi
speak in Avatar which surely that not be
needed when the Klingons in Star Trek
have had their own whole language since
1979 and let's not forget the elvish
languages in JRR Tolkien's the Lord of
the Rings trilogy especially since that
was the official grandfather of the
fantasy conlangs Kon Lang is short for
constructed language they're more than
codes like Pig Latin and they're not
just collections of fabricated slang
like the nod thought lingo that the teen
hoodlums in a clockwork arms speak where
Droog from Russian happens to mean
friend
what makes conlangs real languages isn't
the number of words they have it helps
of course they have a lot of words
Dothraki has thousands of words not
these started with 1500 words fans on
websites have steadily created more but
we can see the difference between
vocabulary alone and what makes a real
language from a look at how Tolkien put
together grand old elvish a con Lang
with several thousand words after all
you could memorize five thousand words
of Russian and still be barely able to
construct a sentence a four-year-old
would talk rings around you that's
because you have to know how to put the
words together that is a real language
as grammar Elvis does in English to make
a verb past you add an IDI wash washed
in elvish wash is a loop and washed is a
loon in real languages also change over
time there's no such thing as a language
that's the same today as it was a
thousand years ago as people speak they
drift into new habits shed old ones make
mistakes and get creative
today one says give us today our daily
bread in Old English they said wooden
Agudelo Amla can fluff sooo loose today
things change in conlangs to Tolkien
charted out ancient and newer versions
of Elvis when the first elves awoke at
quit vienen in their new language the
word
people was quindi but in the language of
one of the groups that moved away
teller II over time quendi became pen
deep with the K turning into a P and
just like real languages conlangs like
Elvis split off into many when the
Romans transplanted latin across europe
french spanish and italian were born
when groups moved to different places
over time their ways of speaking grow
apart just like everything else about
them thus Latins word for hand was Manos
but in French it became Matt while in
Spain it became mano Tolkien made sure
Elvis did the same kind of thing while
that original word quendi became pen d
among the teller e among the ivory who
spread throughout middle-earth it became
King D when the W dropped out the elvish
varieties Tolkien fleshed out the most
are Quenya and Sindarin and their words
are different
in the same way French and Spanish are
Quenya has soup for drink cinder and has
soul and as you know real languages are
messy that's because they change and
change has a way of working against
order just like in a living room or on a
bookshelf real languages are never
perfectly logical
that's why Tolkien made sure that Elvis
had plenty of exceptions
lots of verbs are conjugated in ways you
just have to know take even the word no
in the past its new which isn't
explained by any of the rules in English
oh well in elvish no is ISTA but new is
sente oh well the truth is though that
elvish is more sketched for a real
language than a whole one for Tolkien
elvish was a hobby rather than an
attempt to create something people could
actually speak much of the Elvis the
characters in Lord of the Rings movies
speak has been made up since Tolkien by
dedicated fans of elvish based on
guesses as to what Tolkien would have
constructed that's the best we can do
for Elvis because there are no actual
elves around to speak it for us but the
modern con lines go further with rocky
not V and Klingon are developed enough
that you can actually speak them there's
a translation of Hamlet into cleaner
although performing it would mean
getting used to pronouncing k with your
uvula that weird cartoony thing hanging
in the back of your throat believe it or
not you actually do that and plenty of
languages around the world like Eskimo
ones pronouncing elvish is much easier
though so let's take our leave for now
from this introduction to conlangs in
elvish and the other three conlangs
discussed with a heartfelt quod con
langu oval addictive onimaru a Hajus not
these Giovanni a blot and goodbye
you